boundary layer displacement and leading edge bluntness effects in hightemperature hypersonic flow .two important features of hypersonic flow over slender or thin bodiesare the displacement effect of the boundary layer and the largedown-stream influence of leading-edge bluntness . the present papercontributes new theoretical and experimental results on this problem .the interaction of the two effects is treated theoretically by extendingthe basic shock-layer concept . in the outer inviscid flow, a modelconsisting of a detached shock layer and an entropy layer is introducedto account for bluntness . in the boundary layer, the approximatesolution is found to be governed by a local flat-plate similarity . underthe assumption of a strong bow shock and a specific heat ratio close tounity, a theory is developed for an arbitrary thin body . for flat-plateafterbodies, the theory yields a solution agreeing with blast-wavetheory at one limit and strong-interaction theory at the other . withinthe framework of the present theory, the problems involving angle ofattack are also analyzed . complementary to the above study, ahypersonic similitude involving strong shocks, but not requiring close to onea natural comparison with experimental data correlated on the basis ofthis similitude .flat-plate experiments in air, conducted in the c.a.l. 11 x 15-dashin.hypersonic shock tunnel under cold-wall conditions, included measurementof surface heat-transfer distributions and schlieren studies for zeroand nonzero angle of attack . steady laminar heat-transfer rates weremeasured by means of thin-film resistance thermometers at air test-flowmach numbers around 12, free-stream reynolds numbers from 1.4 x 10 to 1.for most of the experiments, airflow stagnation temperatures ranged fromratios of about 0.15 . the range of test conditions at this stagnationtemperature encompassed the limiting cases of dominant bluntness anddominant viscous-interaction effects . heat-transfer distributions werealso measured on a sharp plate for air stagnation temperatures rangingfrom 2,000degreek up to 4,000degreek .the experimental data are quite well correlated in terms of theforegoing theoretical similitude variables characterizing combined effectsof boundary-layer displacement and bluntness . the correlations obtainedsuggest that for the present experimental conditions, at least, thehypersonic viscous similitude is valid even with leading-edge bluntnessin the paper, is generally fair .